Cumulus 1610 - Backup and Recovery Docs (#1468)
nasa/cumulus: docs/features/backup_and_restore.md

PITR gives your DynamoDB tables continuous protection from accidental writes and deletes. With PITR, you do not have to worry about creating, maintaining, or scheduling backups. You enable PITR on your table and your backup is available for restore at any point in time from the moment you enable it, up to a maximum of the 35 preceding days. For example, imagine a test script writing accidentally to a production DynamoDB table. You could recover your table to any point in time within the last 35 days.

On-demand backups help with long-term archival requirements for regulatory compliance. On-demand backups give you full-control of managing the lifecycle of your backups, from creating as many backups as you need to retaining these for as long as you need.

## Enabling PITR during deployment

By default, the Cumulus [data-persistence module](https://github.com/nasa/cumulus/blob/master/tf-modules/data-persistence) enables PITR on the default tables listed in the [module's variable defaults](https://github.com/nasa/cumulus/blob/master/tf-modules/data-persistence/variables.tf) for `enable_point_in_time_tables`. At the time of writing, that list includes:

> - CollectionsTable

Reviewer: Do we want to add Async Ops to this list?

Author: Yeah I can add it

---
id: backup_and_restore
title: Cumulus Backup and Restore
hide_title: true
---

# Cumulus Backup and Restore

## Deployment Backup and Restore

> Most of your Cumulus deployment can be recovered by redeploying via Terraform. The Cumulus metadata including providers, collections, granules, rules, and executions are stored in [DynamoDB](./data_in_dynamodb) and can be setup to be backed up and restored. If a deployment is lost, logs and Step Function executions in the AWS console will be irrecoverable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most of your Cumulus deployment can be recovered by redeploying via Terraform. However, the Cumulus metadata including providers, collections, granules, rules, and executions that is stored in [DynamoDB](./data_in_dynamodb) can only be restored if backup was configured or enabled. If a deployment is lost, logs and Step Function executions in the AWS console will be irrecoverable.
```

Terraform will now manage these tables as part of the Terraform state. Run `terrform apply` to generate the rest of the `data-persistence` deployment and then follow the instructions to deploy the `cumulus` deployment as normal.

At this point the data will be in DynamoDB, but not in Elasticsearch, so nothing will be returned on the Operator dashboard or through Operator API calls. To get the data into Elasticsearch, run an [`index-from-database` operation](https://nasa.github.io/cumulus-api/#index-from-database) via the Operator API. The status of this operation can be viewed on the dashboard. When Elasticsearch is switched to the recovery index the data will be visible on the dashboard and available via the Operator API.

#### Restoring an individual table

A table can be restored to a previous state using PITR. This is easily achievable via the AWS Console by visiting the `Backups` tab for the table.

A table can only be recovered to a new table name. Following the restoration of the table, the new table must be imported into Terraform.

> First, remove the old table by peforming

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, remove the old table from the Terraform state:
```

```sh
terraform state rm module.data_persistence.aws_dynamodb_table.collections_table
```
replacing `collections_table` with the table identifier in the [DynamoDB Terraform table definitions](https://github.com/nasa/cumulus/blob/master/tf-modules/data-persistence/dynamo.tf).

> Then import the new table into Terraform using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then import the new table into the Terraform state:
```

### Backup and Restore with cumulus-api CLI

cumulus-api CLI also includes a backup and restore command. The CLI backup command downloads the content of any of your DynamoDB tables to `.json` files. You can also use these `.json` files to restore the records to another DynamoDB table.

#### Backup with the CLI

To backup a table with the CLI, install the `@cumulus/api` package using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/), making sure to install the same version as your Cumulus deployment:

```bash
npm install -g @cumulus/api@version
```

Then run:

```bash
cumulus-api backup --table <table-name>
```

the backup will be stored at `backups/<table-name>.json`

#### Restore with the CLI

To restore data from a json file run the following command:

```bash

>      ./node_modules/.bin/cumulus-api restore backups/<table-name>.json --table <new-table-name>

Reviewer 2: This can just be `cumulus-api` instead of `./node_modules/.bin/cumulus-api`, correct?

Reviewer 2: Also, do you have to restore a new table name? If so, do we need the note about updating Terraform to use the new table?

Author: Yeah I fixed it. And no you do not need a new table. I made updates to the docs to specify.

### Backup and Restore with cumulus-api CLI

cumulus-api CLI also includes a backup and restore command. The CLI backup command downloads the content of any of your DynamoDB tables to `.json` files. You can also use these `.json` files to restore the records to another DynamoDB table.

#### Backup with the CLI

To backup a table with the CLI, install the `@cumulus/api` package using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/), making sure to install the same version as your Cumulus deployment:

```bash
npm install -g @cumulus/api@version
```

Then run:

```bash
cumulus-api backup --table <table-name>
```

the backup will be stored at `backups/<table-name>.json`

#### Restore with the CLI

To restore data from a json file run the following command:

```bash

> cumulus-api restore backups/<table-name>.json --table <new-table-name>

Reviewer 2: So you said this doesn't need to be a new table right? If so, it should just say `<table-name>`
